.\" This manpage 2025 (C) by Christian Garbs <mitch@cgarbs.de>
.\" Licensed under GNU GPL v1 or, at your option, any later version.
.TH "GBS2GB" "1" "%%%VERSION%%%" "Tobias Diedrich" "Gameboy sound player"
.SH "NAME"
gbs2gb \- convert module dumps from GBS to GB format
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B gbs2gb
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ -- ]
.I GBS\-FILE
.I OUT\-FILE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
gbs2gb converts a Gameboy module dump in .GBS format to .GB format.

This is a developer tool.  Its purpose is currently under investigation ;-)
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-h
Display short help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Display version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-
Marks the end of options.
The next argument will be treated as GBS-FILE, even when starting with a
.BR \- .
.TP
.BI \-t " rom-template"
Read the rom template from file \fIrom-template\fP.
Default is to use the boot rom of the \fIGBS\-FILE\fP if available.
The conversion will fail if neither \fIrom-template\fP nor
\fIGBS\-FILE\fP can provide a rom template.
.TP
.I GBS\-FILE
The sound file to read.
Must be in uncompressed .GBS format.
.TP
.I OUT\-FILE
The converted file to write.
Will be in .GB format.
An existing file will be overwritten.
.SH "BUGS"
If you encounter bugs, please report them via
.I https://github.com/mmitch/gbsplay/issues
.SH "AUTHORS"
gbs2gb was written by Tobias Diedrich <\fIranma+gbsplay@tdiedrich.de\fP>
(with contributions from others, see README.md).
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
gbs2gb is licensed under GNU GPL v1 or, at your option, any later version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gbsplay (1)
