.\" This manpage 2003-2025 (C) by Christian Garbs <mitch@cgarbs.de>
.\" Licensed under GNU GPL v1 or, at your option, any later version.
.TH "GBSPLAYRC" "5" "%%%VERSION%%%" "Tobias Diedrich" "Gameboy sound player"
.SH "NAME"
gbsplayrc \- Gameboy sound player configuration file
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manpage describes the configuration file format of
.BR gbsplay (1).
.SH "SYNTAX"
A configuration file is a text file that may contain options for
.BR gbsplay (1)
as well as comments.
.PP
Comments are introduced by a hash mark ("\fB#\fP").
A comment continues to the end of the line.
.PP
Whitespace, including empty lines, is ignored.
.PP
An option is set by giving the option name,
followed by an equal sign ("\fB=\fP") and the option value.
.SS "Option value types"
Option values can be of these types:
.TP
.B Boolean
An integer number in decimal.
\fB0\fP is considered \fIfalse\fP, everything else is \fItrue\fP.
.TP
.B Endian
A string to select the endianness:
.RS
.IP \fBnative\fP
native endian
.IP \fBlittle\fP
little endian
.IP \fBbig\fP
big endian
.RE
.P
.RS
For backwards compatibility you can also use just the first character
of each option ("\fBn\fP", "\fBl\fP" or "\fBb\fP").
.RE
.TP
.B Filename pattern
A pattern describing filenames that may contain placeholders that will be replaced when generating the actual filename.
Available placeholders are:
.RS
.IP \fB%s\fP
current subsong number
.IP \fB%S\fP
current subsong number with leading zeroes (always 3 digits)
.IP \fB%e\fP
default filename extension based on sound output plugin in use
.IP \fB%%\fP
a literal \fB%\fP
.RE
.TP
.B Filter type
A string to select the output high-pass filter:
.RS
.IP \fBdmg\FP
Gameboy Classic
.IP \fBcgb\FP
Gameboy Color
.IP \fBoff\FP
no filter
.RE
.TP
.B Integer
An integer number in decimal.
.TP
.B Loop mode
A string to select the loop mode:
.RS
.IP \fBnone\fP
no looping
.IP \fBrange\fP
loop over selected subsongs
.IP \fBsingle\fP
loop a single subsong
.RE
.P
.RS
See
.I LOOP MODES
in
.BR gbsplay (1)
for details.
.RE
.TP
.B Play mode
A string to select the play mode:
.RS
.IP \fBlinear\fP
play subsongs in linear order
.IP \fBrandom\fP
play subsongs in random order where every subsong can be played multiple times
.IP \fBshuffle\fP
play subsongs in random order where every subsong is played only once
.RE
.TP
.B Plugin
The name of an output plugin.
Run `\fIgbsplay\ \-o\ list\fP' to get a list of all available output plugins.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR endian " = " \fIEndian\fP
Set the output endianness.
.TP
.BR fadeout " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the fadeout time in seconds.
Instead of cutting the subsong off hard, do a soft fadeout.
.TP
.BR filter_type " = " \fIFilter\ type\fP
Set the output high-pass filter.
.TP
.BR loop " = " \fIBoolean\fP
Set the loop mode to "\fBrange\fP" when enabled.
Set the loop mode to "\fBnone\fP" when disabled.
Deprecated in favor of the \fBloop_mode\fP option.
.TP
.BR loop_mode " = " \fILoop\ mode\fP
Set the desired loop mode.
.TP
.BR output_filename " = " \fIFilename\ pattern\fP
Set the output filename pattern used by some output plugins.
.TP
.BR output_plugin " = " \fIPlugin\fP
Set the sound output plugin.
.TP
.BR play_mode " = " \fIPlay\ mode\fP
Set the desired play mode.
.TP
.BR rate " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the samplerate in Hz.
.TP
.BR refresh_delay " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the refresh delay in milliseconds.
Larger values will lower CPU usage, but things as subsong changes,
fadeouts, reactions to keypresses and the on\-screen display
will be delayed.
.TP
.BR silence_timeout " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the silence timeout in seconds.
When a subsong contains silence for the given time,
the player will skip to the next subsong.
.TP
.BR subsong_gap " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the subsong gap in seconds.
Before playing the next subsong after the subsong timeout,
\fIsubsong_gap\fP seconds of silence will be played.
.TP
.BR subsong_timeout " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the subsong timeout in seconds.
When a subsong has been played for the given time,
the player will skip to the next subsong.
A timeout of 0 seconds disables automatic subsong changes.
.TP
.BR verbosity " = " \fIInteger\fP
Set the verbosity level (default: 3).
A value of 0 means no messages on stdout.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/gbsplayrc
Default location of the global configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.gbsplayrc
User configuration file.
.SH "BUGS"
If you encounter bugs, please report them via
.I https://github.com/mmitch/gbsplay/issues
.SH "EXAMPLE"
A simple configuration file might look like this:
.PP
.nf
.RS
# select NAS output plugin and play subsongs for at most 5 minutes
output_plugin = nas
subsong_timeout = 300
.RE
.fi
.SH "AUTHORS"
.B gbsplay
was written by Tobias Diedrich <\fIranma+gbsplay@tdiedrich.de\fP>
(with contributions from others, see README.md).
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.B gbsplay
is licensed under GNU GPL v1 or, at your option, any later version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gbsplay (1),
.BR gbsinfo (1)
